Viswanathan Anand
in.png
Viswanathan "Vishy" Anand (born 11 December 1969) is an Indian chess
Grandmaster and former World Chess Champion. Described by grandmaster and chess
commentator Lubomir Kavalek as one of the most versatile world champions ever,
Anand has won the World Chess Championship five times (2000, 2007, 2008,
2010, 2012), and was the undisputed World Champion from 2007 to 2013. Anand was
the World Blitz Chess champion in 2000. Anand was the FIDE World Rapid Chess
Champion in 2003, and is widely considered the strongest rapid player of his
generation. He is one of only two world champions who have won the Classical,
Rapid and Blitz world championships. Anand has won the Chess Oscar six times
(1997, 1998, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2008). Anand is the only world champion who has
won the world chess championship playing in all different formats (Match,
Tournament, and Knockout).

Anand became India's first grandmaster in 1988. He was also the first recipient
of the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award in 1991–92, India's highest sporting
honour. In 2007, he was awarded India's second highest civilian award, the
Padma Vibhushan, making him the first sportsperson to receive the award in
Indian history.

He held the FIDE World Chess Championship from 2000 to 2002, at a time when the
world title was split. He became the undisputed World Champion in 2007 and
defended his title against Vladimir Kramnik in 2008. He then defended his title
in the World Chess Championship 2010 against Veselin Topalov and in the World
Chess Championship 2012[9] against Boris Gelfand. In the World Chess
Championship 2013 he lost to challenger Magnus Carlsen and he lost again
to Carlsen in the World Chess Championship 2014.

Anand is one of eight players in history to break the 2800 mark on the FIDE
rating list. He occupied the number one position in several rating lists
between 2007 and 2011.